Do we need to buy an additional motor for the gripper? 

We only need one motor for the gripper itself, however we might need an additional motor for the rest of the arm to
control the rotation of the arm that carries the gripper. What really decides for this is the design of the robot itself. 

If yes what would be a good mechanism for the design?  

A 2-jaw angular gripper would be a good mechanism for our design. This type of gripper has two arms that can be controlled
by only one stepper (servo) motor and is efficient and suitable enough to carry the disks, meanwhile also being cheap. We
could also make it so that it allows space for the close-range sensor we have to put somewhere on the grip to check whether
the disk is being gripped at the moment. 

What is the current state of the art?  

Current state of the art mechanisms for these types of applications would be pneumatic, electric, vacuum or hydraulic grippers.
There are many other types of mechanisms although most of them are made for heavy duty and are used for industrial work which is
outside of the scope of this research. 

What is possible to create with lego? 

The 2-jaw angular gripper explained above is possible to create with lego by simply using gears and hinges or only using hinges.
Although I would recommend going with gears so we reduce the cases of random error. It shouldn’t be that hard of a task. 

Extra Idea: 

Instead of using a gripper that utilizes jaws, it could also be optimal to use a suction cup vacuum pump that work with servos.
Since the disks’ shape is suitable because the top and bottom surfaces are completely flat, suction cups could easily stick to
and displace them. It could also help with space optimization as well. Although this approach is rather expensive (just about
enough to be over the budget) and ambiguous compared to the default approach that we already have. 

Links:

Pneumatic grippers (https://in.omega.com/prodinfo/grippers.html)
State of the art grippers (https://www.universal-robots.com/blog/types-of-grippers-used-in-manufacturing/)
Suction Cup Vacuum Pump (https://www.ebay.com/itm/174122284695)

Oktay Can Ismar
